Please take your seats.
We extend the warm welcome to all who accepted an invitation to join us for this convention.
Today, many have been persuaded that happiness can be found by pursuing material wealth.
But do such riches bring true joy?
If not, what does?
A take note of the Bible-based answers and real life experiences presented in the following discourse entitled
Enjoy riches without pain, how?
This talk will be given by brother Jeffrey Jackson of the governing body.
Brother Jackson, you have our attention.
Do you want to be rich?
Most persons would immediately answer, of course I do.
Because they think of being rich means that they will enjoy life and have happiness and contentment.
But let's ask a second question.
What are you willing to do to become rich?
Now that's a lot harder to answer, isn't it?
As you think about the importance of that question,
let's read a very important warning that the Bible gives us.
If you'd like to take your Bibles, please, and will turn together to the first book of Timothy,
1 Timothy, chapter 6, and verses 9 and 10.
And this is the warning.
But those who are determined to be rich fall into temptation and a snare,
and many senseless and harmful desires that plunge men into destruction and ruin.
For the love of money is a root of all sorts of injurious things.
And by reaching out for this love, some have been led astray from the faith
and have stabbed themselves all over with many pains.
Well that certainly is a very important warning, isn't it?
When we look at it, we see that below the Bible acknowledges that money is useful.
It highlights here the love of money, or in other words those who are determined to be rich.
And notice at the end, there are verse 10.
It says this can lead to persons being stabbed all over with many pains.
In other words, they have gained, but they also have pain along with it.
But there's something else that can cause problems for those who have a love for money.
They may sacrifice their health, they may sacrifice their family life, and even their standards.
But the Bible highlights yet something else that they need to be careful about.
And at this time, if we turn our Bibles to the book of Proverbs,
please turn with me to Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 20.
That's Proverbs 28, verse 20.
A faithful man will receive many blessings.
But the one hastening to get rich, or in other words in a hurry, he wants quickly to get rich.
What does it say? Well that person will not remain innocent.
And isn't that true? That many people steal, lie, cheat.
They even prostitute themselves, and others kill other persons just to get rich.
So truly, these are important questions for each one of us to think about.
But why does the Bible highlight so strongly this warning about trying to get rich?
Well one of the reasons is that the Bible highlights the deceptive power of riches.
Now you might be wondering, what does that mean, the deceptive power of riches?
Well maybe we could illustrate it this way.
Imagine you wake up in the middle of a dark night.
The wind is blowing strongly, the rain is falling heavily, and you start to worry about flooding.
Then you see that there's no electricity.
So you start to grow up around and you find the flashlight.
So all of a sudden you feel like you have some help because you can see what's happening.
But as you try to turn it on, there's no light.
So then you remember, I just bought some batteries.
And as you grow up around in the drawer, you find, here I've got a battery.
So you put them in with the hope that this will now give you light.
But the batteries are dead. Perhaps there's a problem with them.
That is the deceptive power.
You put your reliance on something and it doesn't help you.
Well in a similar way, money can have that same type of deceptive power.
We might look at it, we might think, yes, this will help me.
But what happens in times of trouble?
So the Bible helps us to see that money doesn't always give us the hope that we need in times of problems.
Let's just think about three different areas of life.
First of all, money doesn't automatically mean that we have genuine security.
I'm sure you'll agree, the more money we have, perhaps the more security that we need to have to protect it.
But if we think about this, the Bible clearly highlights the problem.
And this time, if you'd like to turn with me to the book of Proverbs,
but we're going to read Proverbs chapter 18.
So please turn there to Proverbs 18 and verse 11.
And notice this very interesting word picture that the Bible uses here.
The wealth of the rich is his fortified city.
It is like a protective wall in his imagination.
Now that is very thought provoking, isn't it?
Perhaps we could illustrate it this way, a person may pay a lot of money every month
for a security firm to care for his home and his family.
And each night, he may sleep very soundly.
But what if he found out later that this was a fake company?
There were no security guards.
He was just paying money for nothing.
That security would be only security in his imagination, wouldn't it?
The Bible also highlights another aspect of this, and I'm sure you'll agree with these comments
in chapter 23 of the same book, the book of Proverbs.
Proverbs 23 and verses 4 and 5.
It starts with this very good warning.
Do not wear yourself out to gain wealth.
Stop and show understanding.
Now notice the word picture.
When you cast your eyes on it that is on wealth or money,
it's not there.
For it will surely sprout wings like an eagle and fly off into the sky.
Now I'm sure you've experienced that, haven't you?
Your paycheck comes.
You think, yes, I've got some money.
You turn your back and all of a sudden it's gone.
There's not enough money.
And in a bigger sense, in recent times we've seen how money can be devalued.
How even precious commodities such as oil and gold can lose their value.
It reminds me a number of years ago someone gave me this bank note.
And looking at it and reading it it says,
I promise to pay the bearer on demand 20 billion dollars.
Well, in outward appearances it looks like I'm quite wealthy.
But you probably guessed that if I were to present this and demand payment,
I really wouldn't get much from it because this money has been devalued.
So in a similar way, just like the batteries that don't work,
money at times does not give us the security that we want.
Now a second area in which money can't automatically give us what we want
is with regard to happiness and contentment.
Yes, money doesn't automatically bring happiness and contentment.
You've probably seen accounts of persons who appear to be very successful.
They're famous, they have money.
And yet when they're interviewed they talk about how lonely they feel
and how meaningless their lives are.
And that's exactly what the Bible tells us.
It mentions that someone who accumulates a lot of money
isn't ever really satisfied with what they've already got.
They want more.
Isn't that true?
We've heard accounts of persons one way or another
who have accumulated billions of dollars.
But they just keep on accumulating money,
even though they couldn't use all that money in 10 or 20 lifetimes.
The Bible also tells us that oftentimes a rich person stays awake at night
worrying about his money.
But you know there's another area that is even more important
than those first two areas of life.
And that is money cannot automatically bring God's blessings.
Now that's an interesting thought.
Why can we say that?
Well let's look to the words of our Lord Jesus Christ.
These are recorded for us in the book of Matthew.
So please turn with me to Matthew chapter 6.
And we're going to read verse 24.
These words of Jesus were part of the Sermon on the Mount.
Notice what Jesus says.
Matthew 6 verse 24.
Well that says it very clearly, doesn't it?
You see, we have to make a choice.
We can't serve God and riches at the same time.
So this would affect our services.
So this would affect our service and our love of God.
So looking at those three areas of life,
we see that money can be like that dead battery.
It doesn't necessarily give us genuine security.
It doesn't necessarily give us happiness and contentment.
And it can interfere with our relationship with God.
Now let's look at a video.
And we're going to see in this video how two individuals are affected
by this love for material things or for money.
I thought happiness was all about money
and getting to buy whatever I wanted.
I was really into fashion.
I was always thinking about what I was going to get next
and I didn't mind putting an extra overtime to get it.
My day ended with me taking the last train home,
eating, and then bed at one or two o'clock in the morning.
But this affected me mentally and physically.
I'd wake up in the middle of the night with panic attacks.
I felt so lost and confused.
Everything I'd worked for was for nothing.
My motive for shopping was when and doubt by...
I bought a lot of things, powerful motorcycles, a house, cars.
I was totally absorbed in work and sometimes worked all night.
I somehow made it to meetings.
But after they ended, I'd leave right away.
I didn't show interest in anyone, not even my wife.
All I ever talked about was work.
And I showed a real lack of consideration for my wife.
I was really blunt with her and there was a constant back and forth between us.
And we had a strained relationship.
We weren't happy.
We just felt stress, stress, and more stress.
Everything seemed pointless.
What did we see in that video?
You'll notice that both those individuals really enjoyed going after money.
They wanted to be rich.
But did they receive happiness and contentment?
No.
There were problems that came along with it.
They gained some things but with pain.
So considering all these factors we've just discussed,
does it mean that it's wrong for us to want to be rich?
Not at all.
Now that may sound like a contradiction.
But let's have a look at another scripture in the book of Proverbs.
At this time we'll turn to Proverbs chapter 10.
In chapter 10 verse 22, notice it talks about a different sort of riches.
What is it?
Well, let's read it in Proverbs 10-22.
It is the blessing of Jehovah that makes one rich.
And he adds no pain with it.
Did you notice what is it that really brings us true riches?
It's the blessing of Jehovah.
Yes, the blessings that we gain from God are true riches.
Because notice what it says at the end of that verse.
He adds no pain with it.
So it's gain without pain.
But when we think about this, we might ask,
how could we ever accumulate these type of riches?
Well, our Lord Jesus Christ answered this in the Sermon on the Mount.
And if you turn back with me to that chapter we already referred to, Matthew chapter 6.
You'll notice here that Jesus describes to us how we can obtain these genuine riches.
Matthew 6, 19 through 21.
Stop storing up for yourselves treasures on the earth, where mouth and rust consume,
and where thieves break in and steal.
Rather, store up for yourselves treasures in heaven,
where neither mouth nor rust consumes, and where thieves do not break in and steal.
For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Do we see what Jesus is telling us here?
Not to just strive after getting material riches here on the earth,
but notice he says that we should store up treasures in heaven.
Now this is not talking about an offshore bank account.
Rather, it's talking in a symbolic way about how we can build up as it were a good relationship with God
by means of the things that we do.
Yes, these are true treasures.
But now when we think about the life of Jesus Christ,
He lived by these things that He preached.
He didn't try to accumulate all these material things in His life.
No, He focused on serving His Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
He wasn't distracted by greed or by some desire for personal fame and glory.
No, He focused on building up these treasures in heaven.
You might remember, even at one time in His life, Satan the devil tried to tempt Him.
Do you remember one of those temptations involved this very fact
that Jesus resisted the desire to accumulate material things?
Let's turn our Bibles this time to the Book of Matthew.
And we look at one of the temptations as recorded here by Matthew.
It's Matthew chapter 4 and verses 8 through 10.
And here we told, again the devil took Him along to an unusually high mountain
and showed Him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
And He said to them,
all these things I will give you if you fall down and do an act of worship to Me.
Then Jesus said to Him, go away, Satan.
For it is written, it is Jehovah your God, you must worship.
And it is to Him alone, you must render sacred service.
So Jesus clearly rejected this temptation to accept from Satan all these riches and glories of the world.
His focus was on serving Jehovah.
And that was the wise thing to do.
If you stop and think about it, you see, if riches and the glory of the world
are the very things that make us happy, then why was Satan willing to give all that away?
Obviously, it hadn't given Him the happiness, He wanted something else, didn't He?
Jesus selected the right thing to build up treasures in heaven.
So if we worship Jehovah and obey Him, we can expect to get our lives enriched
by these wonderful things that Jehovah gives us.
What are some of the symbolic riches we could say that we can again, even now?
Well, let's think about five different things.
The first one is in a well-known scripture in the book of Psalms.
So please, turn with Me to Psalm 83.
Psalm 83, and we're going to read verse 18.
May people know that you, whose name is Jehovah, you alone are the most high over all the earth.
So what's the first of these things that can enrich our lives?
It's knowing God.
You see, many people like to know the rich and famous.
But just think of it, we have the privilege of coming to know the sovereign of the universe.
Yes, by learning about Him and getting to know Him, our lives truly become rich.
Now, in addition to that, we become worshipers of Jehovah.
And that includes us in a worldwide brotherhood, a brotherhood that comes from all sorts of nations
and racial backgrounds and languages.
And yet, even this global brotherhood is united in love, the love of serving Jehovah God.
So that's something that enriches our lives as well.
A third point is that even though we're living in difficult times,
when we follow the advice and direction given to us by Jehovah through His Word, the Bible,
then we can attain a measure of happiness right now.
For example, the Bible gives us advice on how to be good fathers and mothers and children,
and that can add to happiness, love, and unity in the family.
But something else that's important that enriches our lives, we have hope.
Yes, hope for the future.
Even though we're living in a world that's dominated by wicked people,
the Bible tells us about what's going to happen in the future.
Please turn with me back to the book of Psalms.
This time we're going to read Psalm 37 and verse 22.
Notice the promise that's given here.
Those blessed by Him, that is, Jehovah, will possess the earth.
But those cursed by Him will be done away with.
So the Bible promises us that in the future there'll be a big change here on earth.
And only those who love God will possess the earth.
What a beautiful hope.
Now the fifth point is the wonderful promise that the Bible gives us,
that those who we love have already died will have the opportunity of being resurrected,
or in other words, being brought back to life.
Notice the promise of Jesus.
It's recorded in John chapter 5.
So please turn with me to John chapter 5 and verses 28 and 29.
This is Jesus' promise.
Do not be amazed at this, for the hour is coming,
in which all those in the memorial tombs will hear His voice and come out.
Those who did good things to a resurrection of life,
and those who practice while things to a resurrection of judgment.
What beautiful hopes these are.
A hope for a change in the world, and a hope for those who have died to come back
and live again in a paradise.
Those are the things that can enrich our lives right now.
So let's think back to those two individuals in the video.
How could they change their lives?
So instead of trying to pursue after material riches,
they could achieve these true riches.
Let's watch and see.
I realized that I hadn't been caring for myself on the inside,
so I decided to read the Bible all over again.
I was especially moved by how Jehovah repeatedly tried to help the Israelites,
despite all their failures.
This reminded me that Jehovah had been expressing His love for me all along.
I couldn't hold back my tears.
I decided that I'd live the rest of my life for Him.
I adjusted my work and made the ministry the focal point in my life.
When I get to share a Bible scripture with someone and see it make an impact on them,
I feel truly happy.
I saw some brothers from the congregation playing soccer with a young boy
who had just lost his father.
They were trying to comfort him by spending time with him.
When I saw them showing personal interest in someone
and considering others' feelings, it really impressed me.
And I thought, I want to use my time like that as well.
A scripture in the Bible says,
there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
The more I practiced it, the happier I became.
I became convinced that this really is the truth.
Now, when my wife and I spend time together,
I am better able to really understand her
and have come to realize how much she means to me.
I am so thankful that Jehovah has taught me the truth.
So how did these two individuals gain true riches?
By focusing on serving Jehovah God,
by telling others the good news about what's in the Bible
and by sharing good things with others.
Yes, if we've started in a life course that involves just looking for material riches,
we too can change and follow their example.
But what about the future?
What true riches are ahead of us in the future
if we continue to have a good relationship with Jehovah God?
I'd like to turn your attention to a beautiful prophecy in the book of Revelation.
Please, take your Bibles and turn to this book Revelation.
We're going to look at chapter 21 and verses 3 through 5.
As we read these words,
imagine if you would please what a beautiful place the world will be
when Jehovah God makes it into a paradise.
That's Revelation 21, 3 through 5.
With that I heard a loud voice from the Throne say,
look, the 10th of God is with mankind,
and He will reside with them, and they will be His people,
and God Himself will be with them,
and He will wipe out every tear from their eyes,
and death will be no more,
neither will morning or acry, nor pain be any more.
The former things have passed the way,
and the one seated on the Throne said,
look, I'm making all things you.
Also, He says, right for these words are faithful and true.
What a beautiful promise this is.
In other words, in the future,
this earth will be turned into a paradise,
and notice it says no more tears,
no more morning or outcry,
and also notice it says no more pain.
These are the blessings that come from Jehovah God.
But how will people feel at that particular time?
Let's turn our Bibles to our final scripture in the book of Isaiah.
Isaiah chapter 65,
and we're going to start reading at verse 17.
In the beginning of verse 17,
it mentions about the new heavens and new earth,
the Jehovah is planning to bring about.
But notice the last part of verse 17,
and the former things will not be called to mind,
nor will they come up into the heart.
What a wonderful blessing that is.
That's something that money can't buy.
In other words, no matter what traumatic experiences we've had in this life,
no matter what pain we've experienced,
those things will be healed.
No more pain at all.
What a beautiful promise from our loving Heavenly Father, Jehovah.
And notice if we look down to verses 21 through 23,
some of the activities that people will be engaged in.
They will build houses and live in them,
and they will plant vineyards and eat their fruitage.
They will not build for someone else to inhabit,
nor will they plant for others to eat.
For the days of my people will be like the days of a tree,
and the work of their hands my chosen ones will enjoy to the full.
They will not toil for nothing,
nor will they bear children for distress,
because they are the offspring made up of those blessed by Jehovah,
and their descendants with them.
What a wonderful time that will be.
And that can be part of the riches that you can attain.
Yes, what should be the determination of each one of us?
We don't want to strive after fake riches,
riches that just give us gain with pain.
Rather, let us strengthen our relationship with our Heavenly Father, Jehovah,
and in this way we truly will reach out for the real riches,
those that we gain without pain.
Thank you, Brother Jackson, for identifying the riches that bring true joy.
Around the earth, millions are learning how Bible teachings lead to genuine happiness.
If you would like to have Bible discussions,
free of charge at a time and place convenient for you,
please inform one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
or you might simply visit jw.org and fill out an online request for a Bible study.
We will be happy to arrange for one of Jehovah's Witnesses to supply you with more details about
how you can increase your knowledge of the Bible and its author, Jehovah God.
What an encouraging session of Bible-based instruction this has been.
We look forward to the thrilling finale in the next session,
but now we invite you to stand if possible,
and join in singing song number 84 entitled Reaching Out.
This song reminds us of the joy that comes from helping others to draw close to God.
Again, that song number 84.